Welcome to our special
Morning Worship program
for the most important day of the year.
It’s a real privilege this morning
not just to speak to the Bethel family
but to be able to share
some Scriptural thoughts
with the majority
of our dear brothers and sisters
right around the world, including you
wherever you may be this morning.
All of us are looking forward
with excitement to this evening,
when we unitedly remember
the death of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But first, let’s start by reading
the scripture text selected for today.
We’re going to ask Brother David Schafer,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
to read for us this morning.
Please, David,
let’s have the scripture text read.
Tuesday, April 7, 2020
—the Memorial date after sundown.
The text is taken from Romans 5:8:
“Christ died for us.”
Thank you, David.
Imagine, please,
that you are in a prison cell.
You’ve just been notified
that you will be executed
in the morning because of your faith.
There is no further means of appeal.
The decision is final.
How will you spend this last night?
What will you do?
What will you think about?
Some of our brothers and sisters in the past
have found themselves
in this challenging situation.
Many of these used their last night
to write letters to strengthen and comfort
their friends and relatives.
For example, consider the courageous words
written by one young brother to his family
as he awaited death
at the hands of Nazi persecutors.
He wrote: “It is already past midnight.
“I still have time to change my mind.
“Ah! could I be happy again in this world
“after I had denied our Lord?
“Surely not!
“But now you have the assurance
that I leave this world
in happiness and peace.”
Notice, this dear brother didn’t use
that final evening just to focus
on his own hardships.
Rather, he used part of that evening
to encourage those whom he loved.
He wanted to strengthen them
so that they wouldn’t be overwhelmed
by the sad news of his death.
Well, with these thoughts in mind,
let’s now think about
how Jesus spent his last evening
as a human here on earth.
To start with, let’s ask this question:
By the time of that evening,
what did Jesus know
about the circumstances of his death?
To answer that question,
let’s read together
what’s stated in Matthew chapter 20.
So if you turn with me, please,
to Matthew 20:18, 19,
Jesus said:
“Look! We are going up to Jerusalem,
“and the Son of man will be handed over
“to the chief priests and the scribes.
“They will condemn him to death
“and hand him over to men of the nations
“to be mocked and scourged
and executed on a stake;
and on the third day he will be raised up.”
So on that final evening,
what did Jesus already know about his death,
and what would he
have been thinking about?
These verses that we just read
mention four things.
First of all, it tells us that he knew
he would be handed over
to the Jewish religious leaders
who would take him to court
and find him guilty of a crime,
perhaps one
including the charge of blasphemy.
Second, Jesus knew
that he would be handed over
to “men of the nations”
(in other words, the Romans),
and that they would violently abuse him.
Third, he knew
that he would be executed on a stake.
And the final point,
he realized that he
would be resurrected on the third day.
So on that final evening,
Jesus already knew some of the details
concerning his death,
and these would have weighed
heavily on his mind.
But were there any other things
that he already knew?
Yes.
Let’s consider another three facts
that were on his mind that evening.
The first one we’ll notice
if we turn to the book of John this time.
In John chapter 13,
we’re going to start by reading verse 21:
“After saying these things,
Jesus became troubled in spirit,
“and he bore witness, saying:
‘Most truly I say to you,
one of you will betray me.’”
Now if we turn across to verse 26,
it tells us that Jesus continued to say:
“‘It is the one to whom
I will give the piece of bread that I dip.’
“So after dipping the bread, he took it
and gave it to Judas,
the son of Simon Iscariot.”
Jesus knew that one of his apostles
would betray him,
and he even knew
who his betrayer would be.
Now for something else that Jesus knew,
let’s read verse 38 of the same chapter
—John 13:38.
Jesus here said to Peter:
“Will you surrender your life in my behalf?
“Most truly I say to you,
a rooster will by no means crow
until you have disowned me three times.”
So Jesus also knew
that Peter would deny him three times.
And for another point,
let’s turn to John chapter 16
—John 16:32.
Here, speaking to his apostles, Jesus said:
“Look! The hour is coming,
“indeed, it has come,
“when each one of you
will be scattered to his own house
and you will leave me alone.”
So Jesus also realized
that the rest of his apostles
would run away and desert him.
So, what did Jesus have
on his mind that evening?
Not only would Jesus have been thinking
about his upcoming court trial, persecution,
and execution but he also knew
that he would be betrayed,
denied, and abandoned.
Now, if you were Jesus,
how would you have reacted
to this knowledge?
Perhaps you
would have preferred to be by yourself,
avoiding those who would fail you.
You might have thought,
‘It’s better for me
to spend the evening in prayer
—preparing properly—
without these negative distractions.’
Just think about it:
Despite all these negative things,
Jesus didn’t hide away and stay by himself.
In fact, he told his apostles
that he “greatly desired”
to celebrate this last Passover with them.
In other words,
he wasn’t going to “miss the meeting”
because of these negative things.
Amazingly, even with
all these things on his mind,
Jesus focused on
how to help his faithful apostles.
He loved them,
and he wanted to prepare them
for what was about to happen.
In fact, in John’s account,
five chapters are devoted
to Jesus’ final words
of encouragement to his apostles.
What an amazing,
unselfish love Jesus showed!
Just imagine, Jesus took the time
to wash the feet of his apostles,
even the feet
of his betrayer, Judas Iscariot.
Not only were the apostles
unwilling to do this lowly service
but when Jesus
started to wash their feet,
not one of them stood up
and offered to take over.
Yes, they had
a real problem with their attitude.
That was further shown by the fact
that they had an argument that evening
about who was the greatest among them.
But do we see the evidence
of Jesus’ love in all of this?
He didn’t give up on them.
Jesus didn’t allow these failures
to cause him to have
a negative view of his apostles.
Instead, he commended
his 11 faithful apostles
and even made a covenant with them
to be part of his Kingdom.
Isn’t that truly amazing?
Additionally, Jesus
earnestly prayed to Jehovah
not only to watch over those apostles
but also to care for those
who would later believe in him
—that includes us today.
Despite all the negative things on his mind,
Jesus focused on strengthening others
and praying for them.
What an expression of unselfish love!
This evening, we’ll be focusing on the love
Jehovah and Jesus expressed for us.
But as we meditate
on the events of Nisan 14,
let’s also remember
how Jesus proved his love
for his apostles by not giving up on them.
Even at a time when his thoughts
would have been focused
on the excruciating death
that lay ahead of him,
he patiently helped them
so that they could deal
with what was about to happen.
What lessons can we learn from this?
Well, this may not be
the last night of our life,
and we may not expect
to be executed tomorrow.
But how can we imitate the love
that Jesus displayed that final evening?
Here are some things
we can all be determined to do:
Don’t give up on our brothers and sisters,
even if at times they seem to fail us.
Continue to strengthen others,
even when we are facing difficulties.
In this way, we will also prove
our genuine love
for Jehovah and his loving Son, Jesus Christ.
Now, David, let’s have our comments read.
“Jesus was willing
not only to die for his disciples
“but also to live each day in a way
that put their interests ahead of his own.
“For instance, he met with his followers
“even when he was physically tired
or emotionally distressed.
“And he focused on
what he could give to others,
“not on what he could get from them.
“We belong to
the only true Christian brotherhood,
“and we enjoy spending
as much time as possible
“inviting new ones to join us.
“However, we are particularly interested
“in helping those
who are ‘related to us in the faith’
“but who have become inactive.
“We prove our love for them
by encouraging them to attend our meetings,
“especially the Memorial.
“Like Jehovah and Jesus,
we are deeply moved
when an inactive one returns to Jehovah.”
Thank you, David,
for reading for us this morning.
Now we’re going to turn our attention
to our scheduled Bible reading
for this morning.
“Now on the first day
of the Unleavened Bread,
“when they customarily offered up
the Passover sacrifice,
“his disciples said to him:
“‘Where do you want us to go
and prepare for you to eat the Passover?’
“With that
“he sent two
of his disciples and said to them:
“‘Go into the city,
“‘and a man carrying
an earthenware water jar will meet you.
“‘Follow him, and wherever he goes inside,
“‘say to the master of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says:
“‘“‘Where is the guest room where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?’
“‘“And he will show you
a large upper room, furnished and ready.
“Prepare it for us there.’”
“So the disciples went out,
“and they entered the city
and found it just as he said to them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
“On the first day of the Unleavened Bread,
“the disciples came to Jesus, saying:
“‘Where do you want us to prepare
for you to eat the Passover?’
“He said: ‘Go into the city
to So-and-so and say to him,
“‘“The Teacher says:
‘My appointed time is near;
“I will celebrate the Passover
with my disciples at your home.’”’
“So the disciples did
as Jesus instructed them
and prepared for the Passover.”
“After evening had fallen,
“he came with the Twelve.
“And as they were reclining
at the table and eating, Jesus said:
“‘Truly I say to you, one of you
“who is eating with me will betray me.’
“They began to be grieved
“and to say to him one by one:
“‘It is not I, is it?’
“He said to them:
“‘It is one of the Twelve,
the one dipping with me into the bowl.
“‘For the Son of man is going away,
just as it is written about him,
“‘but woe to that man through whom
the Son of man is betrayed!
“It would have been better
for that man if he had not been born.’
“And as they continued eating,
“he took a loaf, said a blessing,
“broke it, and gave it to them, saying:
“‘Take it; this means my body.’
“And taking a cup,
he offered thanks and gave it to them,
“and they all drank out of it.
“And he said to them:
“‘This means my “blood of the covenant,”
“‘which is to be poured out
in behalf of many.
“‘Truly I say to you,
I will by no means drink anymore
“‘of the product of the vine until that day
“when I drink it new in the Kingdom of God.’
“Finally, after singing praises,
“they went out to the Mount of Olives
“And Jesus said to them:
“‘You will all be stumbled,
for it is written:
“‘“I will strike the shepherd,
and the sheep will be scattered about.”
“‘But after I have been raised up,
“I will go ahead of you into Galilee.’
“But Peter said to him:
“‘Even if all the others
are stumbled, I will not be.’
“At that Jesus said to him:
“‘Truly I say to you that today, yes,
“‘on this very night,
before a rooster crows twice,
“you will disown me three times.’
“But he kept insisting:
“‘If I have to die with you,
I will by no means disown you.’
“Also, all the others
began to say the same thing.
“So they came to a spot named Gethsemane,
“and he said to his disciples:
“‘Sit down here while I pray.’
“And he took Peter and James
and John along with him,
“and he began to feel deeply distressed
“and to be greatly troubled.
“He said to them:
“‘I am deeply grieved, even to death.
“‘Stay here and keep on the watch.’
“And going a little way forward,
“he fell to the ground
and began praying that,
“if it were possible,
the hour might pass away from him.
“And he said:
“‘Abba, Father, all things
are possible for you;
“‘remove this cup from me.
“Yet, not what I want, but what you want.’
“He returned and found them sleeping,
“and he said to Peter:
“‘Simon, are you sleeping?
“‘Did you not have the strength
to keep on the watch for one hour?
“‘Keep on the watch and pray continually,
“‘so that you do not come into temptation.
“‘The spirit, of course, is eager,
“but the flesh is weak.’
“And he went away again and prayed,
“saying the same thing.
“And he came again
and found them sleeping,
“for their eyes were weighed down,
“so they did not know what to answer him.
“And he returned
the third time and said to them:
“‘At such a time as this,
you are sleeping and resting!
“‘It is enough!
The hour has come!
“‘Look! The Son of man
is being betrayed into the hands of sinners.
“‘Get up, let us go.
“Look! My betrayer has drawn near.’
“And immediately,
while he was still speaking,
“Judas, one of the Twelve, arrived
“and with him a crowd with swords and clubs,
“sent from the chief priests
and the scribes and the elders.
“Now his betrayer
had given them an agreed sign, saying:
“‘Whoever it is I kiss, he is the one;
“take him into custody,
and lead him away under guard.’
“And he came straight up
and approached him
“and said, ‘Rabbi!’
“and gave him a tender kiss.
“So they seized him
and took him into custody.
“However, one of those
standing by drew his sword
“and struck the slave
of the high priest, taking off his ear.
“But in response Jesus said to them:
“‘Did you come out to arrest me
“‘with swords and clubs as against a robber?
“‘Day after day I was
with you in the temple teaching,
“‘and yet you did not take me into custody.
“Nevertheless,
this is to fulfill the Scriptures.’
“And they all abandoned him and fled.
“However, a certain young man
wearing only a fine linen garment
“over his naked body
began to follow him nearby,
“and they tried to seize him,
“but he left his linen garment behind
and got away naked.
“They now led Jesus away to the high priest,
“and all the chief priests and the elders
“and the scribes assembled.
“But Peter,
from a good distance, followed him
“as far as into the courtyard
of the high priest;
“and he was sitting together
with the house attendants
“and warming himself before a bright fire.
“Now the chief priests
and the entire Sanhedrin
“were looking for testimony against Jesus
“in order to put him to death,
but they were not finding any.
“Many, indeed,
were giving false witness against him,
“but their testimonies were not in agreement.
“Also, certain ones were standing up
“and bearing false witness
against him, saying:
“‘We heard him say,
“I will throw down this temple
“‘“that was made with hands,
and in three days
“I will build another not made with hands.”’
“But even on these grounds,
“their testimony was not in agreement.
“Then the high priest stood up in their midst
“and questioned Jesus, saying:
“‘Do you say nothing in reply?
“What is it these men
are testifying against you?’
“But he kept silent and made no reply at all.
“Again the high priest
began to question him and said to him:
“‘Are you the Christ
the Son of the Blessed One?’
“Then Jesus said:
“‘I am; and you will see the Son of man
“sitting at the right hand of power
and coming with the clouds of heaven.’
“At this the high priest
ripped his garments and said:
“‘What further need
do we have of witnesses?
“You heard the blasphemy.
What is your decision?’
“They all condemned him
as deserving of death.
“And some started to spit on him
“and to cover his face
“and hit him with their fists and say to him:
“‘Prophesy!’
“And slapping him in the face,
the court attendants took him.
“Now while Peter was below in the courtyard,
“one of the servant girls
of the high priest came.
“On seeing Peter warming himself,
“she looked straight at him and said:
“‘You too were
with the Nazarene, this Jesus.’
“But he denied it, saying:
“‘Neither do I know him nor do I
understand what you are talking about,’
“and he went outside to the entryway.
“There the servant girl saw him
and again began to say to those standing by:
“‘This is one of them.’
“Again he was denying it.
“And after a little while,
“those standing by
again began saying to Peter:
“‘Certainly you are one of them,
“for you are, in fact, a Galilean.’
“But he started to curse and swear:
“‘I do not know this man of whom you speak!’
“Immediately a rooster
crowed a second time,
“and Peter recalled
what Jesus had said to him:
“‘Before a rooster crows twice,
“you will disown me three times.’
And he broke down and began to weep.”
We’re sure that those verses have helped
to prepare us for the Memorial this evening.
But before we finish,
we’d like to assure you
that the Governing Body loves you all.
Wherever you may be this evening,
no matter what challenges you may face,
it’s our heartfelt wish
that Jehovah will richly bless you all.
May our united efforts to be
at the Memorial this evening
bring praise to our loving
heavenly Father, Jehovah,
and his Son, Jesus Christ!